## Filesystem layout
### QSPI Flash
See also: `scripts/babyshark-flash-partitions.txt`

| start (MiB) | Length (MiB) | /dev/mtdblockN | usage           | fs        | moutpoint       |
| ----------- | ------------ | -------------- | --------------- | --------- | --------------- |
| 0           | 4            | 0              | ubootmain       | raw flash | n/a             |
| 4           | 16           | 0              | linuxmain       | raw flash | n/a             |
| 20          | 4            | 0              | ubootbackup     | raw flash | n/a             |
| 24          | 8            | 0              | linuxbackup     | raw flash | n/a             |
| 32          | 14           | 0              | fpga1bitstream  | raw flash | n/a             |
| 46          | 4            | 0              | firmware        | jffs2     | /enginefirmware |
| 50          | 9            | 0              | dantedata       | jffs2     | /data           |
| 59          | 2            | 0              | dantedante      | jffs2     | /dante          |
| 61          | 2            | 0              | system          | jffs2     | /systempersist  |
| 63          | 1            | 0              | systemimmutable | jffs2     | /immutable      |
| 64          | 16           | 0              | danteipcore     | jffs2     | /danteipcore    |

#### ubootmain/ubootbackup
Contains a xilinx boot.bin with FSBL and u-boot. See [boot script](#boot-script).

#### linuxmain/linuxbackup
Contains a fitImage with device tree, rootfs, and kernel.

#### fpga1bitstream
Contains the bitstream for the PL. Note that this is in the raw `.bit` format,
not the bootable `.bin` format that is generated by xilinx bootgen. This will
be programmed to the PL in u-boot.

#### firmware
Contains firmware images for on-demand boot devices. This includes the sharcs
and xmos.

#### dantedata/dantedante
These persistent partitions are required by dante.

#### system/systemimmutable
Misc persistent data used by the engine host. `systemimmutable` should be
mounted read-only and contain lifetime-immutable data such as the MAC address
and board ID.

#### danteipcore
Contains the packed dante IP core package (eg `ipcore-XXX.tgz`).

### eMMC

| start (MiB) | Length (GiB) | usage        | fs   | moutpoint     |
| ----------- | ------------ | ------------ | --   | ------------- |
| 0           | 29           | engineparams | ext4 | /engineparams |

For now, the entire device is formatted as ext4 and mounted for engine parameter storage.

## Boot script

See the bootscript [here](./meta-enghost/recipes-bsp/u-boot/u-boot-xlnx/digico-uboot-env.env).

### Current bootscript (during development)
1. If the safeboot button is pressed, stop everything and go to uboot prompt.
2. Attempt to program the PL. This reads from the `fpga1bitstream` flash
   partition and programs it. A patch to u-boot has been added to re-run
   `ps7_post_config` after programming.
3. If programming fails, continue anyway as best effort (TODO need to pass this
   info to kernel)
4. Try boot from USB. Mount the USB as FAT
    - Scan for bootscripts (`boot.scr`). If any is found, run it
    - Scan for fitImages (`fitImage` or `image.ub`). If any is found, boot it
5. Try boot from eMMC. Mount the eMMC as FAT
    - Scan for bootscripts (`boot.scr`). If any is found, run it
    - Scan for fitImages (`fitImage` or `image.ub`). If any is found, boot it
6. Try to boot from `linuxmain`. Attempt to load a fitImage from this partition
   and boot from it.
7. Try to boot from `linuxbackup`. Attempt to load a fitImage from this partition
   and boot from it.
8. Die.

## Programming FPGA1 bitstream considerations
There are a few options for how to do this, namely:
1. using FSBL, where bitstream is baked in to the boot.bin
2. from u-boot, using the `fpga loadb <...>` command
3. from Linux using the FPGA-manager linux driver and device tree overlay

Option 1 is the easiest to set up, but it couples the bitstream to the FSBL and
u-boot binaries. To update FPGA1 using this method, we would need to either
- Package and update fsbl, u-boot, and FPGA1 bistream all in one. This has the
  disadvantages of unnecessarily coupling a FPGA1 update with a u-boot update
  (u-boot updates should be very rare), as well as requiring us to do a
  potentially less safe update of the boot.bin, since power failure while
  updating will cause a fallback to the backup partition.
- Edit the boot.bin in-place. It is feasible to repackage the boot.bin or
  manually edit it in linux. length fields and checksums would need to be
  patched up. This is clearly a complex and non-standard way of doing things
  and was avoided as such.

Option 2 is doable from the u-boot script. It has the advantage of having the
PL up and running before the linux driver stack runs, so no device tree
overlays are required. The disadvantage is that it requires some patches to
u-boot so that it can run `ps7_post_config` after programming, as is usually
done by the fsbl.

Option 3 is also achievable. The downside is that it would require all
FPGA-dependent devices and system setup to be moved to a device tree overlay,
since they will not be available until the fpga is programmed via fpga-manager.
This includes any EMIO devices, and AXI devices.



I've decided to go with Option 2, as it removes complexity from the linux
image. Device tree overlays are not required, and no patching of boot.bin is
required.
